How To Prepare For Your
Upcoming Open House
An open house is a great way to
market your home and give potential
buyers the opportunity to walk
through the property in person.
A licensed agent will be on site
to host the open house and handle
everything during the event.
To ensure the open house goes
smoothly, there are a few important
things to do ahead of time.
First, sellers should not be
present during the open house.
This allows buyers to feel
comfortable walking through the
home and asking questions freely.
One Week Before
About a week before the open house,
do a depersonalization check.
Put away personal photos, heirlooms,
valuables, and sensitive personal items.
Plan to deep clean the home and
create a simple routine to keep it
tidy leading up to the open house.
This is also a good time to tend to
the yard by mowing, trimming bushes,
and clearing walkways so the exterior
makes a strong first impression.
One Day Before
The day before the open house, vacuum,
mop, and dust throughout the home.
Focus on kitchens, bathrooms, and floors.
Do a quick sniff test and
take care of any odors.
Clean pet areas thoroughly and
air out the home if needed.
A Few Hours Before
A few hours before the open
house, open windows if the weather
allows to bring in fresh air.
Turn on all lights so the home
feels bright and welcoming.
Pets should be removed from
the home during the open house.
This is important for both
buyer comfort and safety.
Secure personal documents, mail,
and any sensitive information.
Take out the trash and
hide bins out of sight.
Put away everyday clutter such as
shoes, jackets, and countertop items.
Do one final walkthrough of each room
to make sure everything is clean,
orderly, and ready for visitors.
Taking these steps helps create a positive
experience for buyers and allows the open
house to showcase your home at its best.